#summary USB Network Devices - WiMAX

In this menu you're able to tune up WiMAX settings.

= Index =
 * [GUIUSBNetworkDevicesWiMAX#Introduction Introduction]
 * [GUIUSBNetworkDevicesWiMAX#General_parameters General parameters]

-------
= Introduction =
This page contains some additional WiMAX settings, all of them are not required.

-------
= General parameters =
== Set as WAN Connection Type by default ==
This checkbox allow to make WiMAX connection as default WAN. Checked state indicate that parameter *WAN Connection Type:* at page *IP Config - WAN & LAN* is *WiMAX*.  Unchecking of it will set parameter *WAN Connection Type:* to value *Auto*. Any changing of this checkbox requires router restart.


== SSID ==
Service set identifier is a name that identifies a particular !WiMAX wireless network.
Default value is blank, it means *@yota.ru* will be used.
Known WiMAX identifiers:
 * Yota - *@yota.ru*
 * Comstar - *login:pass@wimax.comstar-uts.ru*
 * Mezon.lt - *@mezon.lt*

== Check connection ==
When enabled, this setting allows periodic test of the connection by sending a series of ping packets to the ISP gateway.
Results and time of packets circulation are displayed at page [GUIStatusLogWiMAX Status & Log - WiMAX].

It's possible to add your own script * post-check-connection * to reflect connection check fails.
Location and content rules are common and described in [UserScripts UserScripts FAQ]. Arguments:<br>
$1 - WiMAX interface name

_The default value is: No_

== Time period, sec ==
The amout of time between the connection checks, in seconds.
It's not reccomended to set value lower then 60 seconds, it could make your WiMAX connection unworkable on unstable connections due constant restarts.

_The defalut value is: 60_

== Restart dead connection ==
When enabled, this setting allows to force reset WiMAX connection, if connection check fails with an error.
It allows to keep your WiMAX modem in the active state.

_The default value is: No_
