#summary Special helper hook scripts

 * There are exists several special scripts with predefined names. By creating them you can significantly modify firmware default behavior.

All pre/post scripts must conform following rules:
 * Stored in /usr/local/sbin directory
 * Has `#!/bin/sh` in first line in case of it shell script (not ELF executable)

List of scripts:
 # * pre-boot * - launched before main initialization, when no kernel modules are loaded, but flashfs is expanded & all files from /usr/etc copied to /etc.<br><br>
 # * post-boot * - executed after all services started, except webcam & usb disc<br><br>
 # * pre-shutdown * - launched before reboot.<br><br>
 # * pre-mount * - launched on hotplug usb disc before mount, suitable to manual mounts, disk checks, etc. Arguments:<br>  $1 - product ID (example: "58f/6387/142")<br><br>
 # * post-mount * - launched, when disc mount is finished, to achieve custom user actions. Arguments:<br>   $1 - product ID<br>  $2 - mounted directory<br><br>
 # * post-firewall * - executed every time, after router changes routing & firewall rules (for example, after new IP assigned to WAN), to allow add custom rules in firewall tables. Arguments:<br>   $1 / $2 - WAN interface name / WAN IP<br>  $3 / $4 - LAN interface name / LAN IP<br> $5 / $6 - DMZ interface name / DMZ IP<br><br>

* WARNING: * _Incorrect files could prevent your wl500g from booting. Double check your changes before committing. If you wl500g failed to boot flash it with other firmware version and execute these commands:_
{{{
 nvram set boot_local
 nvram commit
}}}
_After that you can reflash your wl500g back to the latest firmware and boot normal_