= Wireless - Interface =

In this menu you're able to set basic wireless settings like: Network name and encryption settings


== SSID ==

The SSID is the wireless network name the router will use.
Clients will identify wireless networks by their name.
Unless you want to make a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_LAN#Roaming roaming network] or a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_Distribution_System WDS network]
you'll need to choose a unique name preferably easy to remember.
The SSID must not exceed 32 characters.

The SSID is also important for WPA and WPA2 encryption security since it's a part of the generated security key.
This will protect you from "Rainbow code" based attacks.


== Channel ==

WiFi communicates over a range of frequencies, to make it easier they are numbered for 802.11B/G/N.
Usually the best results will be made with the auto setting, this way the router will pick
the best possible channel at the moment it boots.

WiFi allows a total of 14 channels. In some countries it's not allowed to use all channels though.
<table border="1">
<tr>
<th>Channel</th>
<th>North America</th>
<th>Japan</th>
<th>Most of the world</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>no</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>no</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td>yes</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>no</td>
<td>802.11b only</td>
<td>no</td>
</tr>
</table>
This table only shows general information, are you unsure about what channels you may use, please refer to your local authorities or search the web.

Channels must be set to a fixed number when using [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_Distribution_System WDS networking].

=== Channel overlapping ===
[http://i42.tinypic.com/2e549x1.jpg http://i41.tinypic.com/nz3j85.jpg]
In this graph you can see the overlapping of the channels.
Every channel has a lower, center and upper frequency.

Because the frequencies are overlapping, it's not a good idea to choose a channel close to another WiFi network channel.
This will guarantee you have optimal signal quality and throughput.

Usually the best channels to choose are 1, 6 or 11 since they do not overlap each other.

When you have a 802.11N(draft) enabled router you must set the channel to 6 for best results.


== Wireless Mode ==

Different modes are available to choose from, recommended is "Auto" which will allow all types of 802.11.
Available modes differ per router, but this is the list:

==== Auto ====
Allow every mode available: 802.11b/g/n
Recommended setting!
==== 802.11g only ====
Only allow clients supporting 802.11g (54Mbit/s)
When you have only 802.11g clients this is probably the best setting.
It optimizes maximum throughput as well as range.
==== Performance ====
This is a special option for 802.11g which allows high throughputs.
This mode usually only works with special Asus WiFi adapters supporting throughput boost functionalities.
==== 54G LRS ==== 
The so called "Limited Rate Support". 
This is only needed when some 802.11b clients can't connect. This is the special compatibility mode.
802.11g clients are also allowed.
==== 802.11n Only ====
Only allow clients supporting 802.11n.
When you have only 802.11n clients this is probably the best setting.
It optimizes maximum throughput as well as range.



(more coming soon)